[RF-DOCS] Action Text Documentation [ci-skip] (#1)
Ridhwana/rails: guides/source/action_text_overview.md

After reading this guide, you will know:

* What Action Text is, and how to install and configure it.
* How to create, render, style and customize rich text content.
* How to handle attachments.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

What is Action Text?
--------------------

Action Text facilitates the handling and display of rich text content. Rich text content is text that includes formatting elements such as bold, italics, colors, and hyperlinks, providing a visually enhanced and structured presentation beyond plain text. It allows us to create rich text content, store it in a table, then attach it to any of our models.

> INFO: **The Trix Editor**<br><br>

Reviewer: Food for thought here: this INFO block got kinda big for the introduction of the guide:

<details>
<img width="686" alt="Screenshot 2024-02-05 at 11 35 34" src="https://github.com/Ridhwana/rails/assets/26328/dbc9c26b-e7b7-488d-b91a-6e3fd70fbf11">
</details>

We still mention Trix as part of the main copy right after this new big INFO block. Trix is kind of an integral part of Action Text, even though you can totally use it without Trix, by default that's what you get, and likely will be using.

I wonder if we should still leave the first paragraph as part of the copy, and leave the INFO block for the extra stuff about "why trix" type of thing.

We could keep the info between these two paragraphs, perhaps with a subsection on trix, or maybe move both paragraphs up, and the INFO following it that explains why trix.

Here's an example of how that could look like:

<details>
<img width="673" alt="Screenshot 2024-02-05 at 11 39 52" src="https://github.com/Ridhwana/rails/assets/26328/ee994a2d-982b-4af4-b8cb-ee698173ff32">
</details>

Reviewer 2: I noticed that the paragraphs starting with "Most WYSIWYG editors are wrappers around HTML’s contenteditable..." are copy/pasted into this guide from https://trix-editor.org/. If we link that maybe we could remove the 'sidebar' altogether?

Author: I've implemented this suggestion and it improves the flow - thanks!

Reviewer: @bhumi1102 that's actually a good point, we already link to the trix website, so maybe we can drop the whole INFO box altogether now, and let trix document it, since it's very specific (and kind of unnecessary information from the Rails perspective and development for the most part?)

> Action Text includes a WYSIWYG editor called Trix, which is used in web applications to provide users with a user-friendly interface for creating and editing rich text content. It handles everything from providing enriching capabilities like the formatting of text, adding links or quotes, embedding images, and much much more. You can view an example of the Trix editor [here](https://trix-editor.org/).<br><br>Most WYSIWYG editors are wrappers around HTML’s `contenteditable` and `execCommand` APIs. These APIs were designed by Microsoft to support live editing of web pages in Internet Explorer 5.5. They were eventually reverse-engineered and copied by other browsers. Consequently, these APIs were never fully specified or documented, and because WYSIWYG HTML editors are enormous in scope, each browser's implementation has its own set of bugs and quirks. Hence, JavaScript developers are often left to resolve the inconsistencies.<br><br>Trix sidesteps these inconsistencies by treating`contenteditable` as an I/O device: when input makes its way to the editor, Trix converts that input into an editing operation on its internal document model, then re-renders that document back into the editor. This gives Trix complete control over what happens after every keystroke and avoids the need to use `execCommand` and the inconsistencies that come along with it.

Reviewer: Perhaps we should link WYSIWYG to https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WYSIWYG for extra clarity?

Author: ✅

The rich text content generated by the Trix editor is saved in its own RichText model that can be associated with any existing Active Record model in the application. In addition, any embedded images (or other attachments) can be automatically stored using Active Storage and associated with that RichText model.

> Active Storage is included as a dependency of Action Text. When it's time to render content, Action Text processes the content by sanitizing it first so that it's safe to embed directly into the page's HTML.

Reviewer: Minor: I think we can de-empashize the "Active Storage is a dependency" a bit by just mentioning it; also avoids one more mention of "Action Text" in this block.

```suggestion
The rich text content generated by the Trix editor is saved in its own RichText model that can be associated with any existing Active Record model in the application. In addition, any embedded images (or other attachments) can be automatically stored using Active Storage (which is added as a dependency) and associated with that RichText model. When it's time to render content, Action Text processes the content by sanitizing it first so that it's safe to embed directly into the page's HTML.
```

## Installation

> To install Action Text and start working with rich text content, run `bin/rails action_text:install`. It will do the following:

Reviewer: Suggestion: It's easier to copy if we break commands like this into their own block, which also gives users a "copy" button for free:

<img width="653" alt="Screenshot 2024-02-05 at 11 45 53" src="https://github.com/Ridhwana/rails/assets/26328/3660e48e-bc85-467e-a5b7-a901c3a66df6">

````suggestion
To install Action Text and start working with rich text content, run:

```bash
$ bin/rails action_text:install
```

It will do the following:
````

- Installs the Yarn packages for `trix` and `@rails/actiontext` and adds them to the `application.js`.

> - Adds an `image_processing` gem from Active Storage for image analysis and transformations of the embedded images and other attachments. Please refer to the Active Storage Overview guide for more information about the `image_processing` gem.

Reviewer: Let's take the opportunity and link to that Active Storage guide directly here. My suggestion below also tweaks the copy `from Active Storage` to not give the impression that's owned by it.

```suggestion
- Adds the `image_processing` gem for analysis and transformations of the embedded images and other attachments with Active Storage. Please refer to the [Active Storage Overview](active_storage_overview.html) guide for more information about it.
```

> - Adds migrations to create the following tables that store rich text content and attachments; namely `action_text_rich_texts`, `active_storage_blobs`, `active_storage_attachments`, `active_storage_variant_records`. Later on, we’ll discuss the polymorphic association of this table to your existing models.

Reviewer: We might want to skip the mention to polymorphic associations here since it's explained just a couple paragraphs below, to simplify:

```suggestion
- Adds migrations to create the following tables that store rich text content and attachments: `action_text_rich_texts`, `active_storage_blobs`, `active_storage_attachments`, `active_storage_variant_records`.
```

- Creates `actiontext.css` and imports it into `application.css`. The Trix stylesheet is also included in the `application.css` file.
- Adds the default view partials `_content.html` and `_blob.html` to render Action Text content and Active Storage attachment (aka blob) respectively.

> Thereafter, run `bin/rails db:migrate` to add the action_text and active_storage tables to your app.

Reviewer: Same suggestion about pulling commands to separate blocks:

````suggestion
Thereafter, executing the migrations will add the new `action_text_*` and `active_storage_*` tables to your app:

```bash
$ bin/rails db:migrate
```
````

> When the Action Text installation creates the `action_text_rich_texts` table, it uses polymorphic relationships so that it can be shared with all your existing models through rich text attributes. This is done through a `record` column which stores the ClassName of your model and `record_id` which stores the relevant ID of your record.

Reviewer: Minor rewording suggestion, food for thought if you like it. Also the column name is `record_type`: (`record` is the shortcut used in `references / belongs_to`)

```suggestion
When the Action Text installation creates the `action_text_rich_texts` table, it uses a polymorphic relationship so that multiple models can add rich text attributes. This is done through the `record_type` and `record_id` columns, which store the ClassName of the model, and ID of the record, respectively.
```

> Hence, if your models containing Action Text content use UUID values as identifiers, then all models that use Action Text attributes will need to use UUID values for their unique identifiers. The generated migration for Action Text will also need to be updated to specify `type: :uuid` for the record references line.

Reviewer: I wonder if it'd be helpful to show how the line should look like, with the type: :uuid added?

Or maybe it's worth mentioning that the migration will now try to detect the configured type, so if you've set it up properly, it should automatically pick it up as `:uuid`? Ref: https://github.com/rails/rails/commit/fa6067d0dc62c32cdc85101e49774b619a11b447

---
Btw, I looked for that configuration option in the guides and didn't find anything, only other related mention is in the Active Storage guide:
<img width="643" alt="Screenshot 2024-02-05 at 14 09 40" src="https://github.com/Ridhwana/rails/assets/26328/4f1c865f-ade4-4de6-9dad-304d21c6bebd">

Maybe there's some way we can organize these the same across all guides that would mention it going forward.

Author: That's a great idea. I've updated to show how the line should look like.

> Maybe there's some way we can organize these the same across all guides that would mention it going forward.

I'm going to think about this a little more and add it as a todo for me.

> INFO: With polymorphic associations, a model can belong to more than one other model, on a single association. Read more about it in the [Active Record Associations guide](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/association_basics.html#polymorphic-associations).

Reviewer: For reading flow, would it make sense to move this in between the paragraphs above?

Right now one paragraph mentions polymorphic, the other mentions changing to UUID because of that, and then it circles back on an INFO about polymorphic. If we change, it'd be a paragraph about polymorphic, followed by the related INFO, and then a closing paragraph with UUID info.

Author: Makes sense - ✅

## Creating Rich Text Content

This section explores some of the configurations you'll need to follow in order to create rich text.

The RichText record holds the content produced by the Trix editor in a serialized `body` attribute. It also holds all the references to the embedded files, which are stored using Active Storage. This record is then associated with the Active Record model which desires to have rich text content. The association is made by placing the `has_rich_text` class method in the model that you’d like to add rich text to.

```ruby
# app/models/blog.rb

> 

Reviewer: Nit: no need for additional blank line.
```suggestion
```

class Blog < ApplicationRecord
  has_rich_text :content
end
```

> NOTE: The `content` column will not need to be added to your Blog table. `has_rich_text` helps to associate it with the `action_text_rich_texts` table that has been created and links it back to your model. You also may choose to name the attribute to be something different to `content`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: There's no need to add the `content` column to your Blog table. `has_rich_text` associates the content with the `action_text_rich_texts` table that has been created, and links it back to your model. You also may choose to name the attribute to be something different to `content`.
```

> Once you have added the `has_rich_text` class method to the model, you can then update your views to make use of the rich text editor (Trix) for that field. In order to do so, use a  `rich_text_area` for the form field.

Reviewer: I think we need to add a blank line here, otherwise it merges the two into a single NOTE: (I don't think that was the intention?)

<img width="644" alt="Screenshot 2024-02-05 at 14 14 52" src="https://github.com/Ridhwana/rails/assets/26328/b5a88084-0cf2-4e59-83c9-9265831231ff">

```suggestion

Once you have added the `has_rich_text` class method to the model, you can then update your views to make use of the rich text editor (Trix) for that field. In order to do so, use a `rich_text_area` for the form field.
```

```ruby
# app/models/message.rb
class Message < ApplicationRecord
# app/models/blog.rb

class Blog < ApplicationRecord
  has_rich_text :content
end
```

or add rich text field while creating a new model using:

```bash
$ bin/rails generate model Message content:rich_text
```

NOTE: you don't need to add a `content` field to your `messages` table.
NOTE: The `content` column will not need to be added to your Blog table. `has_rich_text` helps to associate it with the `action_text_rich_texts` table that has been created and links it back to your model. You also may choose to name the attribute to be something different to `content`.
Once you have added the `has_rich_text` class method to the model, you can then update your views to make use of the rich text editor (Trix) for that field. In order to do so, use a  `rich_text_area` for the form field.

> Then use [`rich_text_area`][] to refer to this field in the form for the model:

Reviewer: Maybe we keep the link to the API docs on `rich_text_area` the first time we mention it above? It can give people more context and options to use it, a way to explore more.

> This will display a Trix editor that provides the functionality to create and update your rich text accordingly. Styling updates for the editor can be made in `actiontext.css`.

Reviewer: Minor suggestion: we also mention about style updates in the customizing trix section, perhaps instead of mentioning it also here, we link it to that section?

> <%= @message.content %>

Reviewer: Let's update it to `@blog` for consistency with the other changes.

```suggestion
<%= @blog.content %>
```

> `ActionText::RichText#to_s` safely transforms RichText into an HTML String. On the other hand `ActionText::RichText#to_plain_text` returns a string that is not HTML safe and should not be rendered in browsers. You can learn more about Action Text's sanitization process in the [documentation](https://edgeapi.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionText/RichText.html) for the `ActionText::RichText` class.

Reviewer: Let's keep links pointing to `api` instead of `edgeapi`, they're [translated to edgeapi automatically when the guides are generated](https://edgeguides.rubyonrails.org/ruby_on_rails_guides_guidelines.html#linking-to-the-api).

```suggestion
`ActionText::RichText#to_s` safely transforms RichText into an HTML String. On the other hand `ActionText::RichText#to_plain_text` returns a string that is not HTML safe and should not be rendered in browsers. You can learn more about Action Text's sanitization process in the [documentation](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionText/RichText.html) for the `ActionText::RichText` class.
```

> Check their [install docs](https://www.libvips.org/install.html) on how to get it.

Reviewer: The fact we have this mentioned here, also a list of dependencies in the Active Storage section, plus all of that on its own guide, makes me pause a bit. It means if one of these dependencies change, we have multiple places to be updating those.

Maybe it makes sense to be linking these around, so that the final guide to be checked for the most up-to-date info is always the Storage one.

We could mention something like this here:

```suggestion
NOTE: If there's an attached resource within `content` field, it might not show properly unless you have the necessary [dependencies for Active Storage](#active-storage) installed.
```

Then on that block, we explain that some dependencies are necessary and link to the Storage guide for the actual dependencies. How does that sound?

Author: Sounds good, I've updated accordingly - thanks for the suggestion! ✅

> By default, Action Text will render rich text content inside an element with the `.trix-content` class. This is set in `/views/layouts/action_text/contents/_content.html.erb`.  Elements with this class are then styled by the trix stylesheet.

Reviewer: Suggestion: use the full path from app/ for consistency with other examples.

```suggestion
By default, Action Text will render rich text content inside an element with the `.trix-content` class. This is set in `app/views/layouts/action_text/contents/_content.html.erb`.  Elements with this class are then styled by the trix stylesheet.
```

However, if you’d prefer to provide your own styles instead of using the trix stylesheet, you can remove trix from the pre-processor directives in the `app/assets/stylesheets/actiontext.css` file by deleting the following:

```css
= require trix
```

> ### Customizing the editor container

Reviewer: We should [capitalize](https://edgeguides.rubyonrails.org/ruby_on_rails_guides_guidelines.html#headings) headings/titles:

```suggestion
### Customizing the Editor Container
```

After reading this guide, you will know:

> * What action text is and how to install and configure Action Text.

Reviewer 3: Instead of mentioning action text in one sentence twice, maybe: "What Action Text is, and how to install and configure it"

> * How to create, render, style and customize rich text content.

Reviewer: Nit: following the Oxford comma

```suggestion
* How to create, render, style, and customize rich text content.
```

* How to handle attachments.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

What is Action Text?
--------------------

> Action Text facilitates the handling and display of Rich Text Content. Rich Text content is text that includes formatting elements such as bold, italics, colors, and hyperlinks, providing a visually enhanced and structured presentation beyond plain text. It allows us to create rich text content, store it in a table, then attach it to any of our models.

Reviewer 3: I don't believe that rich text content should be capitalized here like Rails native features such as Action Text.

Reviewer 3: Ah, now I see that it is a Trix feature. But I still feel that it shouldn't be capitalized until the model is introduced further below.

> **The Trix Editor**

Author: Maybe this can be a NOTE instead of body text, it could work as well. Any thoughts?

Reviewer 3: I like it. Let's try it.

**Action Text and the Trix Editor**

The rich text content generated by the Trix editor is saved in its own RichText model that can be associated with any existing Active Record model in the application. In addition, any embedded images (or other attachments) can be automatically stored using Active Storage and associated with that RichText model.
Active Storage is included as a dependency of Action Text. When it's time to render content, Action Text processes the content by sanitizing it first so that it's safe to embed directly into the page's HTML.

## Installation

In order to install Action Text and start working with rich text content in your Rails app:

1. Run `bin/rails action_text:install`

2. After the install command is complete, run `bin/rails db:migrate` to add the action_text and active_storage tables to your app

The `action_text:install` command will do the following:

> - Installs the Yarn packages for `trix` and `@rails/actiontext` and adds them to the `application.js`.

Reviewer 3: I really like this: showing what changes should have taken place after running a command.

Reviewer 3: I feel like this list should be right after the first step though.

- Creates `actiontext.css` and imports it into `application.css`. The Trix stylesheet is also included in the `application.css` file.
- Adds the default view partials `_content.html` and `_blob.html` to render Action Text content and Active Storage attachment (aka blob) respectively.

When the Action Text installation creates the `action_text_rich_texts` table, it uses polymorphic relationships so that it can be shared with all your existing models through rich text attributes. This is done through a `record` column which stores the ClassName of your model and `record_id` which stores the relevant ID of your record.

Hence, if your models containing Action Text content use UUID values as identifiers, then all models that use Action Text attributes will need to use UUID values for their unique identifiers. The generated migration for Action Text will also need to be updated to specify `type: :uuid` for the record references line.

## Creating Rich Text Content

> To create and render rich text we need to follow some configurations. In this section, we’ll explore these configurations.

Reviewer 3: These sentences could be simplified to: "This sections explores some of the configurations you'll need to follow in order to create and render rich text."

```ruby
# app/models/blog.rb

class Blog < ApplicationRecord
  has_rich_text :content
end
```

NOTE: The `content` column will not need to be added to your Blog table. `has_rich_text` helps to associate it with the `action_text_rich_texts` table that has been created and links it back to your model. You also may choose to name the attribute to be something different to `content`.
Once you have added the `has_rich_text` class method to the model, you can then update your views to make use of the rich text editor (Trix) for that field. In order to do so, use a  `rich_text_area` for the form field.

```html+erb
<%# app/views/blogs/_form.html.erb %>
<%= form_with model: blog do |form| %>
  <div class="field">
    <%= form.label :content %>
    <%= form.rich_text_area :content %>
  </div>
<% end %>
```

This will display a Trix editor that provides the functionality to create and update your rich text accordingly. Styling updates for the editor can be made in `actiontext.css`.

> Finally, in order to ensure that you can accept updates from the editor, you will need to permit the the referenced attribute as a parameter in the relevant controller:

Reviewer 3: Double "the the" in this sentence.

```ruby
class BlogsController < ApplicationController
  def create
    blog = Blog.create! params.require(:blog).permit(:title, :content)
    redirect_to blog
  end
end
```

If the need arises to rename classes that utilize `has_rich_text`, you will also need to update the polymorphic type column `record_type` in the  `action_text_rich_texts` table for the respective rows.

> Since Action Text depends on polymorphic associations, which, in turn, involve storing class names in the database, it's crucial to keep the data in sync with the class names used in your Ruby code. This synchronization is essential to maintain consistency between the stored data and the class references in your codebase.

Reviewer 3: Should we link to the polymorphic associations section of the Active Record Associations guide? https://guides.rubyonrails.org/association_basics.html#polymorphic-associations
It's a phrase that made me pause and I'm sure other beginners would too.

Reviewer 3: Or we can create a little info box to do that: "With polymorphic associations, a model can belong to more than one other model, on a single association. Read more on the Active Record Associations guide." https://guides.rubyonrails.org/association_basics.html#polymorphic-associations

Author: Done ✅ I've added it as an info box in the installation section where I first mention the term polymorphic relationship.

Reviewer: There's maybe enough talk about "polymorphic relationships" spread in the guide here that's worth considering a small section of its own? 

Following the guide top-to-bottom, you're learning how to create your first rich text content here, and we're dropping info about updating a database column due to polymorphic associations, should you decide to rename your model -- seems an advanced topic that fits the guide, but maybe not the section it's included.

We could consider adding a small sub-section under "Misc" that talks about N+1 already, and move stuff related to polymorphic associations there? If we still feel strong about mentioning polymorphic associations at the beginning, then we can link to that sub-section, which can in turn link to the AR guide.

Author: @carlosantoniodasilva I'm going to give this one more thought as it will take some more co-ordination and won't be ready before the blog announcement. I will follow up with a PR containing this and some others that need consideration.

Reviewer: @Ridhwana sounds good.

If you have more updates in mind, you can continue working on changes to the branch even with the rails/rails PR open, it's not a problem. No need to think about a separate branch / PR and coordinate both while that's not fully merged, it should make things easier that way.

- Adds the default view partials `_content.html` and `_blob.html` to render Action Text content and Active Storage attachment (aka blob) respectively.

Thereafter, executing the migrations will add the new `action_text_*` and `active_storage_*` tables to your app:

```bash
$ bin/rails db:migrate
```

When the Action Text installation creates the `action_text_rich_texts` table, it uses a polymorphic relationship so that multiple models can add rich text attributes. This is done through the `record_type` and `record_id` columns, which store the ClassName of the model, and ID of the record, respectively.

INFO: With polymorphic associations, a model can belong to more than one other model, on a single association. Read more about it in the [Active Record Associations guide](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/association_basics.html#polymorphic-associations).

Hence, if your models containing Action Text content use UUID values as identifiers, then all models that use Action Text attributes will need to use UUID values for their unique identifiers. The generated migration for Action Text will also need to be updated to specify `type: :uuid` for the record references line.

```ruby

>  t.uuid "record_id", null: false

Reviewer: The line that gets generated is this one:

```ruby
t.references :record, null: false, polymorphic: true, index: false, type: foreign_key_type
```

It tries to get the FK type automatically, but we may need to show the full line here using `type: :uuid`:

```suggestion
t.references :record, null: false, polymorphic: true, index: false, type: :uuid
```

```ruby
# app/models/blog.rb
class Blog < ApplicationRecord
  has_rich_text :content
end
```

NOTE: There's no need to add the `content` column to your Blog table. `has_rich_text` associates the content with the `action_text_rich_texts` table that has been created, and links it back to your model. You also may choose to name the attribute to be something different from `content`.

Once you have added the `has_rich_text` class method to the model, you can then update your views to make use of the rich text editor (Trix) for that field. To do so, use a [`rich_text_area`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/FormHelper.html#method-i-rich_text_area) for the form field.

```html+erb
<%# app/views/blogs/_form.html.erb %>
<%= form_with model: blog do |form| %>
  <div class="field">
    <%= form.label :content %>
    <%= form.rich_text_area :content %>
  </div>
<% end %>
```

> This will display a Trix editor that provides the functionality to [create and update your rich text](action_text_overview.html#removing-or-adding-trix-styles) accordingly.

Reviewer: Sorry, I think I left some confusing feedback before. I meant we can still mention about style updates, but perhaps not be specific about updating `actiontext.css`, instead point people to that section in the guide.

I think the link on `create and update your rich text` might be slightly odd, as it's unrelated to trix/styles. How about something like this:

```suggestion
This will display a Trix editor that provides the functionality to create and update your rich text accordingly. Later we'll go into details about [how to update the styles for the editor](action_text_overview.html#removing-or-adding-trix-styles).
```

      <span class="attachment__name"><%= blob.filename %></span>
      <span class="attachment__size"><%= number_to_human_size blob.byte_size %></span>
    <% end %>

>   </figcapt

Reviewer: Looks like the closing tags were removed by mistake here :)

Author: Oops!✅

```

## Attachments

> Currently ActionText supports attachments that are uploaded through Active Storage as well as attachments that are linked to a Signed GlobalId.

Reviewer: We should always use `Action Text` with a space, when referring to the component as a whole library, `ActionText` is for when referencing the code / module. 

```suggestion
Currently Action Text supports attachments that are uploaded through Active Storage as well as attachments that are linked to a Signed GlobalId.
```

### Active Storage

When uploading an image within your rich text editor, it uses Action Text which in turn uses Active Storage. However, Active Storage has some dependencies which are not provided by Rails. To use the built-in previewers, you must install the following:

- (required) [libvips](https://github.com/libvips/libvips) v8.6+ or [ImageMagick](https://imagemagick.org/index.php) for image analysis and transformations like resizing an image
- [ffmpeg](http://ffmpeg.org/) v3.4+ for video previews and ffprobe for video/audio analysis

> - [poppler](https://poppler.freedesktop.org/) or [muPDF](https://mupdf.com/) for PDF previews

Reviewer: These are the dependencies I mentioned that are maybe better to leave for the Storage guide, and we should just link around.

You should familiarize yourself with the licensing implications of installing the above. Some, but not all of these libraries are required and they are dependent on the kind of uploads you are expecting within the editor. A common error that users encounter when working with Action Text and Active Storage is that images do not render correctly in the editor. This is usually due to the `libvips` dependency not being installed.

### Signed GlobalId

In addition to attachments uploaded through Active Storage, Action Text can also embed anything that can be resolved by a Signed GlobalID.

A Global ID is an app wide URI that uniquely identifies a model instance: `gid://YourApp/Some::Model/id`. This is helpful when you need a single identifier to reference different classes of objects.

> When using this method, ActionText requires attachments to have a signed global ID (sgid). By default, all ActiveRecord models in a Rails app mix-in `GlobalID::Identification` concern. So they can be resolved by a signed global ID and are therefore `ActionText::Attachable` compatible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using this method, Action Text requires attachments to have a signed global ID (sgid). By default, all Active Record models in a Rails app mix-in the `GlobalID::Identification` concern, so they can be resolved by a signed global ID and are therefore `ActionText::Attachable` compatible.
```

> Action Text minifies the HTML you insert on save, so that it can re-render it with up-to-date content later on. This makes it so that you can reference models and always display the current content when those records change.

Reviewer: I'm slightly afraid the word `minifies` here might lead some people to think the whole HTML from action text gets somehow minified to be stored. I think the intention is to convey that it will reference models as `<action-text-attachment>` tags pointing to their `attachable_sgid`, rather than embedding the final full rendered HTML of that referenced attachment, right?

I'm not sure I have a good suggestion off the top of my head, but I do think we should try to avoid the "minifying" concept. I think we're looking for something like "references" or similar. A couple paragraphs below this becomes a bit clearer.

Perhaps a quick re-read through the whole section once other feedback has been reviewed will show some light on how we can potentially tweak it here. Let me know if you have any thoughts.

Author: I've changed it to "references" for now. I'm going to continue thinking about this.

> ActionText will load up the model from the global id and then will render it with the default partial path when you render the content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Action Text will load up the model from the global id and then will render it with the default partial path when you render the content.
```

An Action Text Attachment can look like this:

```html
<action-text-attachment sgid="BAh7CEkiCG…"></action-text-attachment>
```

> Action Text renders embedded `<action-text-attachment>` elements by resolving their sgid attribute of the element into an instance. Once resolved, that instance is passed along to a render helper. As a result the  HTML is embedded as a descendant of the `<action-text-attachment>` element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Action Text renders embedded `<action-text-attachment>` elements by resolving their sgid attribute of the element into an instance. Once resolved, that instance is passed along to a render helper. As a result the HTML is embedded as a descendant of the `<action-text-attachment>` element.
```

> In order to be rendered within Action Text `<action-text-attachment>` element as an attachement, we must include the `ActionText::Attachable` module `implement #to_sgid(**options)` (made available through the `GlobalID::Identification` concern).

Reviewer: Looks like the formatting got a bit strange on this paragraph, maybe `implement` wasn't supposed to be in code style?

<img width="659" alt="Screenshot 2024-02-05 at 15 19 56" src="https://github.com/Ridhwana/rails/assets/26328/c3c95f85-21b7-47d2-bd63-fad3bd48ca87">

```suggestion
In order to be rendered within Action Text `<action-text-attachment>` element as an attachment, we must include the `ActionText::Attachable` module, which implements `#to_sgid(**options)` (made available through the `GlobalID::Identification` concern).
```

It can also optionally declare `#to_attachable_partial_path` to render a custom partial path and `#to_missing_attachable_partial_path` for handling missing records.

An example can be found here:

```ruby
class Person < ApplicationRecord
  include ActionText::Attachable
end

person = Person.create! name: "Javan"
html = %Q(<action-text-attachment sgid="#{person.attachable_sgid}"></action-text-attachment>)
content = ActionText::Content.new(html)
content.attachables # => [person]
```

### Rendering an Action Text Attachment

> The default way that an action-text-attachment is rendered is through the default path partial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default way that an `<action-text-attachment>` is rendered is through the default path partial.
```

> To illustrated this further, let’s consider a User model:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To illustrate this further, let’s consider a User model:
```

### Active Storage

When uploading an image within your rich text editor, it uses Action Text which in turn uses Active Storage. However, Active Storage has some dependencies which are not provided by Rails. To use the built-in previewers, you must install the following:

- (required) [libvips](https://github.com/libvips/libvips) v8.6+ or [ImageMagick](https://imagemagick.org/index.php) for image analysis and transformations like resizing an image
- [ffmpeg](http://ffmpeg.org/) v3.4+ for video previews and ffprobe for video/audio analysis
- [poppler](https://poppler.freedesktop.org/) or [muPDF](https://mupdf.com/) for PDF previews

You should familiarize yourself with the licensing implications of installing the above. Some, but not all of these libraries are required and they are dependent on the kind of uploads you are expecting within the editor. A common error that users encounter when working with Action Text and Active Storage is that images do not render correctly in the editor. This is usually due to the `libvips` dependency not being installed.

### Signed GlobalId

> In addition to attachments uploaded through Active Storage, Action Text can also embed anything that can be resolved by a Signed GlobalID.

Reviewer 2: Linking the first mention of Signed GlobalID may be useful https://github.com/rails/globalid?tab=readme-ov-file#signed-global-ids

A Global ID is an app wide URI that uniquely identifies a model instance: `gid://YourApp/Some::Model/id`. This is helpful when you need a single identifier to reference different classes of objects.

When using this method, ActionText requires attachments to have a signed global ID (sgid). By default, all ActiveRecord models in a Rails app mix-in `GlobalID::Identification` concern. So they can be resolved by a signed global ID and are therefore `ActionText::Attachable` compatible.

Action Text minifies the HTML you insert on save, so that it can re-render it with up-to-date content later on. This makes it so that you can reference models and always display the current content when those records change.

ActionText will load up the model from the global id and then will render it with the default partial path when you render the content.

An Action Text Attachment can look like this:

```html
<action-text-attachment sgid="BAh7CEkiCG…"></action-text-attachment>
```

> Action Text renders embedded `<action-text-attachment>` elements by resolving their sgid attribute of the element into an instance. Once resolved, that instance is passed along to a  render helper. As a result the  HTML is embedded as a descendant of the `<action-text-attachment>` element.

Reviewer 3: Extra space in "to a render helper"

> Action Text will load up the model from the global id and then will render it with the default partial path when you render the content.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Action Text will load the model using the signed global id and then will render it with the default partial path when you render the content.
```

In order to be rendered within Action Text `<action-text-attachment>` element as an attachement, we must include the `ActionText::Attachable` module `implement #to_sgid(**options)` (made available through the `GlobalID::Identification` concern).

> It can also optionally declare `#to_attachable_partial_path` to render a custom partial path and `#to_missing_attachable_partial_path` for handling missing records.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also optionally declare `#to_attachable_partial_path` to render a custom partial path and `#to_missing_attachable_partial_path` for handling missing records.
```

      <span class="attachment__name"><%= blob.filename %></span>
      <span class="attachment__size"><%= number_to_human_size blob.byte_size %></span>
    <% end %>
  </figcapt
```

## Attachments

> Currently Action Text supports attachments that are uploaded through Active Storage as well as attachments that are linked to a Signed GlobalId.

Reviewer: Let's use `GlobalID` across the board.

```suggestion
Currently Action Text supports attachments that are uploaded through Active Storage as well as attachments that are linked to a Signed GlobalID.
```

### Active Storage

When uploading an image within your rich text editor, it uses Action Text which in turn uses Active Storage. However, Active Storage has [some dependencies](active_storage_overview.html#requirements) which are not provided by Rails. To use the built-in previewers, you must install these libraries.

> Some, but not all of these libraries are required and they are dependent on the kind of uploads you are expecting within the editor. A common error that users encounter when working with Action Text and Active Storage is that images do not render correctly in the editor. This is usually due to the `libvips` dependency not being installed.

Reviewer: Very nice 👌

> ### Signed GlobalId

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Signed GlobalID
```

> In addition to attachments uploaded through Active Storage, Action Text can also embed anything that can be resolved by a Signed GlobalID.

Reviewer: It looks like we lost the linking to the globalid repo, it might be nice to keep it around for a reference there.

```suggestion
In addition to attachments uploaded through Active Storage, Action Text can also embed anything that can be resolved by a [Signed GlobalID](https://github.com/rails/globalid#signed-global-ids).
```

When using this method, Action Text requires attachments to have a signed global ID (sgid). By default, all Active Record models in a Rails app mix in the `GlobalID::Identification` concern, so they can be resolved by a signed global ID and are therefore `ActionText::Attachable` compatible.

Action Text references the HTML you insert on save so that it can re-render with up-to-date content later on. This makes it so that you can reference models and always display the current content when those records change.

Action Text will load up the model from the global ID and then render it with the default partial path when you render the content.

An Action Text Attachment can look like this:

```html
<action-text-attachment sgid="BAh7CEkiCG…"></action-text-attachment>
```

Action Text renders embedded `<action-text-attachment>` elements by resolving their sgid attribute of the element into an instance. Once resolved, that instance is passed along to a render helper. As a result, the HTML is embedded as a descendant of the `<action-text-attachment>` element.

> To be rendered within Action Text `<action-text-attachment>` element as an attachment, we must include the `ActionText::Attachable` module `implement #to_sgid(**options)` (made available through the `GlobalID::Identification` concern).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To be rendered within Action Text `<action-text-attachment>` element as an attachment, we must include the `ActionText::Attachable` module, which implements `#to_sgid(**options)` (made available through the `GlobalID::Identification` concern).
```

user.to_signed_global_id.to_s #=> BAh7CEkiCG…
```

> NOTE: We can mix `GlobalID::Identification` into any model with a `#find(id)` class method. Support is automatically included in Active Record.

Reviewer: I think this is `.find`, as in the class method?

```suggestion
NOTE: We can mix `GlobalID::Identification` into any model with a `.find(id)` class method. Support is automatically included in Active Record.
```

The above code will return our identifier to uniquely identify a model instance.

Next, consider some rich text content that embeds an `<action-text-attachment>` element that references the User instance's signed GlobalID:

```html
<p>Hello, <action-text-attachment sgid="BAh7CEkiCG…"></action-text-attachment>.</p>
```

Action Text uses the "BAh7CEkiCG…" String to resolve the User instance. It then renders it with the default partial path when you render the content.

> In this case, the default partial path is the  `users/user` partial:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, the default partial path is the `users/user` partial:
```

instance. Next, consider the application's `users/user` partial:
Action Text uses the "BAh7CEkiCG…" String to resolve the User instance. It then renders it with the default partial path when you render the content.

In this case, the default partial path is the  `users/user` partial:

```html+erb
<%# app/views/users/_user.html.erb %>
<span><%= image_tag user.avatar %> <%= user.name %></span>

> ```

Reviewer: Missed closing block

<img width="672" alt="Screenshot 2024-02-05 at 14 50 16" src="https://github.com/Ridhwana/rails/assets/26328/ed50183d-fd08-4450-b909-07d18f7e3f92">

```

> ### Rendering a different partial for the action-text-attachment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Rendering a Different Partial for the action-text-attachment
```

end
```

Then declare that partial. The User instance will be available as the user partial-local variable:

```html+erb
<%# app/views/users/_attachable.html.erb %>
<span><%= image_tag user.avatar %> <%= user.name %></span>
```

> ### Rendering a partial for an unresolved instance or missing action-text-attachment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Rendering a Partial for an Unresolved Instance or Missing action-text-attachment
```

If Action Text is unable to resolve the User instance (for example, if the record has been deleted), then a default fallback partial will be rendered.

> Rails provides a global partial for missing attachments. This partial is installed in your application at `views/action_text/attachables/missing_attachable` and can be modified if you want to render different HTML.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rails provides a global partial for missing attachments. This partial is installed in your application at `app/views/action_text/attachables/missing_attachable` and can be modified if you want to render different HTML.
```

But actually, I don't see it being generated in a test app. Maybe this is slightly outdated?

I see there's a [default provided by Action Text](https://github.com/rails/rails/blob/2c5fe6fa7aba4a10d56ff4ee54d26511e58dda3b/actiontext/test/dummy/app/views/people/_missing_attachable.html.erb), (which you can in theory override by putting a file in the same path),  and that you can [provide a custom one via the method you explain here](https://github.com/rails/rails/blob/2c5fe6fa7aba4a10d56ff4ee54d26511e58dda3b/actiontext/lib/action_text/attachable.rb#L62-L74), but I don't think there's one that gets installed for you as the copy seems to suggest.

<span>Deleted user</span>
```

> ### An attachable via an API

Reviewer: Minor suggestion:

```suggestion
### Attachable via API
```

> Message.all.with_rich_text_content_and_embeds # Preload both body and attachments.

Reviewer: Perhaps for the sake of consistency, let's change these examples to `Blog` too.
